finished

In summary, "how far along are you" is a versatile and commonly used phrase for inquiring about progress in various contexts, ranging from construction projects to personal developments. As Ludwig AI confirms, it's grammatically sound and suitable for written English.

hang onto something
to keep something:
You should hang onto that painting - it might be valuable.

In British slang, if you get yourself a collar, it means that you have successfully arrested somebody.

I'll say
used to express emphatic agreement.
"‘That was a good landing.’ ‘I'll say!’”

trellis /ˈtrɛlɪs/
a framework of light wooden or metal bars, chiefly used as a support for fruit trees or climbing plants.

call attention to
cause people to notice.
"he is seeking to call attention to himself by his crimes”

bucko /ˈbʌkəʊ/
a young man (often as a form of address).
"I know you, my bucko, you're a troublemaker”

Goon-baiting is an interaction between the prisoner and the guard, or an oppressor, whereby the prisoner, aiming to ensure he is not endangered, 'plays mind games, or does actions, to confuse or enrage an oppressor to the point of where he'd lose his composure.'[1] Goon-baiting was a term used in World War II.[1]

fiend /fiːnd/
an evil spirit or demon.

rational /ˈraʃən(ə)l/
based on or in accordance with reason or logic.
"I'm sure there's a perfectly rational explanation”

averse /əˈvəːs/
having a strong dislike of or opposition to something.
"as a former CIA director, he is not averse to secrecy”

We built a beautiful life together in Japan, with our two sons, and supported each other through thick and thin.

prudent /ˈpruːd(ə)nt/
adjective
acting with or showing care and thought for the future.
"no prudent money manager would authorize a loan without first knowing its purpose”

conscientious /ˌkɒnʃiˈɛnʃəs/
wishing to do one's work or duty well and thoroughly.
"a conscientious man, he took his duties very seriously”

meritocracy
/ˌmɛrɪˈtɒkrəsi/
noun
government or the holding of power by people selected according to merit.
"progress towards meritocracy was slow”

Native Texan here, and I do say "a ways to go." I believe it's much more common in the south than in the rest of the US.

genuflect
/ˈdʒɛnjʊflɛkt/
verb
lower one's body briefly by bending one knee to the ground, typically in worship or as a sign of respect.
"she genuflected and crossed herself"
show deference or servility.
"her party still genuflects to her, and a core within it reflexively venerates her”

"Hit the roof" (or "hit the ceiling") is a common idiom meaning to suddenly become extremely angry or furious. It describes an intense, often loud outburst of anger, similar to "blowing one's top". 

"Rock up" is an informal British and Australian phrase meaning to arrive at a place, often unexpectedly, late, or without prior notice.

what will become of (someone or something)
What will happen to someone or something); what will the end result be for someone or something.
What will become of our troops when they return home from the war? Will they get the resources they need to readapt to civilian life?
Scientists are still trying to determine what will become of the probe once it loses auxiliary power.

on the slab
informal lying dead in a hospital or mortuary

cutting edge /ˌkʌtɪŋ ˈɛdʒ/
the edge of a tool's blade.
"tools with cutting edges should be kept sharp"
the latest or most advanced stage in the development of something.
"researchers at the cutting edge of molecular biology”

scad /skad/
another term for jack (sense 12 of the noun)1.

bear witness to
serve as evidence or proof that something exists or is the case.
"little is left to bear witness to the past greatness of the city”

brush with death
An experience in which one almost dies.
I value my life a lot more since my brush with death in the accident.
A: "Is it true that Hailey had a brush with death in the library today?" B: "Ugh, she's so dramatic. She just fell down some stairs, that's all."
Ed had a brush with death last summer when he almost drowned at the lake.

frock /frɒk/
a woman's or girl's dress.
"her new party frock”

speak volumes
(of a gesture, circumstance, etc.) convey a great deal without using words.
"a look that spoke volumes”

bestiality
/ˌbɛstiˈalɪti,ˌbiːstiˈalɪti/
noun
1.
savagely cruel or depraved behaviour.
"there seems no end to the bestiality of men"
2.
sexual intercourse between a person and an animal.

something done for fun, especially something mischievous or daring; an amusing adventure or escapade.
"I only went along for a lark”

What is the etymology for the phrase, "on a lark" or "for a lark?”

besmirch /bɪˈsməːtʃ/
damage (someone's reputation).
"he had besmirched the good name of his family”

pick apart
1. To subject someone or something to intense or excessive analysis or criticism, especially in order to find flaws or negative aspects.
Every time I show my brother one of my stories, he just picks it apart without saying anything that he liked about it.
Critics picked his performance apart, but fans of the franchise seemed to love it.
2. To defeat, overcome, or dominate someone or something with intense, methodical power or skill.
Their offense just picked us apart in the second half of the game.
With its sheer size and superior equipment, the government's military was able to pick apart the rebellion in less than half a year.

wherewithal
/ˈwɛːwɪðɔːl/
noun
the money or other means needed for a particular purpose.
"they lacked the wherewithal to pay”

down with
—used to say that one does not like something and wants it to stop or fail
Down with racism!
Down with the government!

One growing corner of the digital world is the “manosphere:” a loose network of communities that claim to address men’s struggles – dating, fitness or fatherhood, for example – but often promote harmful advice and attitudes.

get to
deal with a task in due course.
"I'll get to the cleaning soon"
annoy or upset someone by persistent action.
"he started crying—we were getting to him”

lambast /lamˈbast/
criticize (someone or something) harshly.
"they lambasted the report as a gross distortion of the truth”

"reel from" is a term that is used to describe how someone is reacting to something. So it's not something you would SAY to someone. For example, you're not going to say, "I think you will reel from this.”

callus
/ˈkaləs/
noun
a thickened and hardened part of the skin or soft tissue, especially in an area that has been subjected to friction.

dumb down
phrasal verb of dumb
simplify or reduce the intellectual content of something so as to make it accessible to a larger number of people.
"the producers categorically deny that they're dumbing down the show"
become less intellectually challenging.
"the need to dumb down for mass audiences”

any
at all; in some degree (used for emphasis).
"he wasn't any good at basketball”

groove /ɡruːv/
a long, narrow cut or depression in a hard material.
an established routine or habit.
"his thoughts were slipping into a familiar groove”

In urban slang, "jack up" or "jacked up" means to injure, damage, or mess someone/something up, or to be high/stimulated on drugs or excitement, or even to be physically strong/fit (just "jacked"), depending on context, but most commonly it implies something is broken, hurt, or overly hyped

regimen
/ˈrɛdʒɪmən/
noun
1.
a prescribed course of medical treatment, diet, or exercise for the promotion or restoration of health.
"a regimen of one or two injections per day”

nuke
/njuːk/
attack or destroy with nuclear weapons.
destroy; get rid of.
"I fertilized the lawn and nuked the weeds"
cook or heat up (food) in a microwave oven.
"I nuked a quick burger”

A hot mic, sometimes referred to as an open microphone or (in aviation) a stuck mic, is in general an apparent error in which a microphone is switched on or remains on, especially without the speaker realizing.

straight up /ˌstreɪtˈʌp/
British English
truthfully; honestly.
"come on, Bert, I won't hurt you—straight up”

Under the hood" means to look at or understand the internal, often complex, workings or hidden details of something, like a machine or computer system, similar to opening a car's hood to see the engine.

"Leaps and bounds" is an idiom (used as "by leaps and bounds" or "in leaps and bounds") meaning very quickly and significantly, describing rapid, huge progress or improvement in something like growth, learning, or development, often positively, as in "Her Spanish improved by leaps and bounds”

deck
a set of slides (= pages created on a computer that contain text and images) that are used to accompany a person’s presentation
Nothing kills a presentation faster than reading off a deck of slides.

The girl got separated from his mother in the crowd.

smack dab
exactly; precisely.
"I'm in Bolivia, smack dab in the heart of South America”

stratosphere /ˈstratəsfɪə/
the layer of the earth's atmosphere above the troposphere, extending to about 50 km above the earth's surface (the lower boundary of the mesosphere).

pose
present or constitute (a problem or danger).
"the sheer number of visitors is posing a threat to the area”

typhus /ˈtʌɪfəs/
an infectious disease caused by rickettsiae, characterized by a purple rash, headaches, fever, and usually delirium, and historically a cause of high mortality during wars and famines. There are several forms, transmitted by vectors such as lice, ticks, mites, and rat fleas.

I wouldn't put it past sb (to do sth)
used to say that you would not be surprised if someone did something, especially something bad, because it is a typical thing for them to do:
I wouldn't put it past him to sell her jewellery.

monk /mʌŋk/

reticent /ˈrɛtɪs(ə)nt/
not revealing one's thoughts or feelings readily.
"she was extremely reticent about her personal affairs”

Hump day

paramour /ˈparəmʊə/
a lover, especially the illicit partner of a married person.

in with (someone or something)
In close association, cooperation, or partnership with someone or some group.
I'm really worried that my son has fallen in with a bad crowd. These new friends of his seem like real troublemakers.
He's in tight with the most powerful politicians in the country, so he's basically untouchable.
I think I've fallen in with the popular girls? I don't know, they just started hanging out with me one day.

bray /breɪ/
the loud, harsh cry of a donkey or mule.
"the mule uttered its insane bray"

defunct /dɪˈfʌŋ(k)t/
no longer existing or functioning.
"the now defunct Somerset & Dorset railway line”

reprise /rɪˈpriːz/
repeat (a piece of music or a performance).
"he reprises his role as the vigilante architect”

attuned /əˈtjuːnd/
receptive or aware.
"the Department is very attuned politically”

all the way
without limit or reservation.
"I'm with you all the way”

“Snatched" is a slang term that means very attractive, especially as a result of improving one's appearance. For example, you might say "I'd just gotten a spray tan and was looking snatched". Other examples of using "snatched" in this way include:

"Everyone was saying that my makeup looked good and my face was snatched".

"He looks so snatched in that outfit!".

bar preposition /bɑː(r)/
except for somebody/something
The students all attended, bar two who were ill.
All bar one of the employees lost their jobs.
It's the best result we've ever had, bar none (= none was better).

cosy up (to sb)
to be very friendly to someone with the hope of getting an advantage:
Opponents say he has a record of cosying up to polluters and accepting their campaign donations.

speak volumes
(of a gesture, circumstance, etc.) convey a great deal without using words.
"a look that spoke volumes”

face someone/something down
 
to deal directly and bravely with a difficult or frightening person, thing, or situation and refuse to run away, to admit defeat, etc.:
He was prepared to face down an opponent with formidable connections.
The government has to face down these noisy lobbies that do not have the public's interest at heart.

stillbirth /ˈstɪlbəːθ,ˌstɪlˈbəːθ/
the birth of an infant that has died in the uterus or during delivery (strictly, after at least the first twenty weeks of pregnancy, earlier instances usually being regarded as miscarriage).
"an enquiry into stillbirths and deaths in infancy”

plot /plɒt/
a small piece of ground marked out for a purpose such as building or gardening.
"a vegetable plot”

pucker /ˈpʌkə/
(especially with reference to a person's face) tightly gather or contract into wrinkles or small folds.
"the child's face puckered, ready to cry”

I saw him doing it. -- For me, this gives the idea that I saw him while he was in the process of completing the action.

I saw him do it. -- Again, for me, this gives the idea that I saw him complete the entire action.

condiment /ˈkɒndɪm(ə)nt/
a substance such as salt, mustard, or pickle that is used to add flavour to food.

"Take a day off" - 任意の日を休みにする
"Take the day off" - 今日は休みにする

contingency
/kənˈtɪn(d)ʒ(ə)nsi/
noun
a future event or circumstance which is possible but cannot be predicted with certainty.
"a detailed contract which attempts to provide for all possible contingencies”

tip off
to warn someone secretly about something that will happen, so that they can take action or prevent it from happening:
[ + that ] Somebody must have tipped the burglars off that the house would be empty.

synopsis /sɪˈnɒpsɪs/
a brief summary or general survey of something.
"a synopsis of the insurance cover provided is set out below”

auspicious /ɔːˈspɪʃəs/
conducive to success; favourable.
"it was not the most auspicious moment to hold an election”

tacit /ˈtasɪt/
understood or implied without being stated.
"your silence may be taken to mean tacit agreement”

overexert /ˌəʊv(ə)rɪɡˈzəːt/
engage in too much or too strenuous exertion.
"it can be dangerous to overexert yourself”

freeloader /ˈfriːˌləʊdə/
a person who takes advantage of others' generosity without giving anything in return.

To support domestic producers, the US enforces a strict import quota on sugar.

constabulary /kənˈstabjʊləri/
a police force covering a particular area or city.
"the Royal Irish Constabulary”

proliferation /prəˌlɪfəˈreɪʃn/
rapid increase in the number or amount of something.
"a continuing threat of nuclear proliferation"
rapid reproduction of a cell, part, or organism.
"we attempted to measure cell proliferation”

gaseous /ˈɡasɪəs,ˈɡeɪsɪəs/
relating to or having the characteristics of a gas.
"gaseous emissions from motor vehicles”

immunity /ɪˈmjuːnɪti/
protection or exemption from something, especially an obligation or penalty.
"the rebels were given immunity from prosecution”

snuff something out
to cause something to end suddenly:
The country has been able to celebrate the return of its independence so brutally snuffed out in 1940.

copulate /ˈkɒpjʊleɪt/
have sexual intercourse.
"only the dominant male copulates with the female”

lair /lɛː/
a place where a wild animal, especially a fierce or dangerous one, lives.
"he saw that his dogs had roused a wild boar from its lair”

not be someone's first rodeo
to be a situation that someone has experienced before:
This isn't their first rodeo - they've had problems like this before.
You've been arrested before. This isn't your first rodeo.

girder /ˈɡəːdə/
a large iron or steel beam or compound structure used for building bridges and the framework of large buildings.
"the tower is made of steel girders criss-crossed to make it stronger”

A "coinkydink" is a playful, informal, and often humorous alternative spelling and pronunciation of the word coincidence.

brazen /ˈbreɪzn/
bold and without shame.
"he went about his illegal business with a brazen assurance”

slanderous /ˈslɑːnd(ə)rəs/
(of a spoken statement) false and malicious.
"slanderous allegations"

mark off
To lower the score or grade of someone or something. A noun or pronoun can be used between "mark" and "off."
The professor marked me off because I didn't show all of my work.
While we really like the internal specs of the phone, we have to mark it off because of the cheap-feeling plastic they used in its body.

elide /ɪˈlʌɪd/
omit (a sound or syllable) when speaking.
"English speakers often elide the vowel completely"
join together; merge.
"whole periods of time are elided into a few seconds of screen time”

burly /ˈbəːli/
(of a person) large and strong; heavily built.
"I saw a burly figure approaching”

valediction /ˌvalɪˈdɪkʃn/
the action of saying farewell.
"he lifted his hand and spread his palm in valediction"

britches /ˈbrɪtʃɪz/
short trousers fastened just below the knee

be/get too big for your britches
(North American English)
(also be/get too big for your boots British and North American English)
​to be/become too proud of yourself; to behave as if you are more important than you really are

brash /braʃ/
self-assertive in a rude, noisy, or overbearing way.
"he was brash, cocky, and arrogant”
having an ostentatious or tasteless appearance.
"the cafe was a brash new building”

work off
reduce or get rid of a feeling through work or activity.
"one of those gimmicks for working off aggression"
discharge a debt by working.
"indentured servants working off their parents' debts”

pantaloon
/ˌpantəˈluːn/
noun
1.
women's baggy trousers gathered at the ankles.

chariot
/ˈtʃarɪət/
noun
1.
a two-wheeled vehicle drawn by horses, used in ancient racing and warfare.

cur /kəː/
an aggressive or unkempt dog, especially a mongrel.
"a mangy-looking cur”

pass over
to ignore or not give attention to someone or something:
pass someone over for promotion The woman alleges that her employers passed her over for promotion because she was pregnant.

TLC
abbreviation for tender loving care:

husbandry /ˈhʌzb(ə)ndri/
the care, cultivation, and breeding of crops and animals.
"all aspects of animal husbandry”

reconcile
/ˈrɛk(ə)nsʌɪl/
verb
1.
restore friendly relations between.
"the king and the archbishop were publicly reconciled"
2.
make (one account) consistent with another, especially by allowing for transactions begun but not yet completed.
"it is not necessary to reconcile the cost accounts to the financial accounts”have a bearing on something
to have an influence on something or a relationship to something:
What you decide now could have a considerable bearing on your future.
It was clear that this testimony could have a bearing on the case we were investigating.

tirade
/tʌɪˈreɪd,tɪˈreɪd/
noun
a long, angry speech of criticism or accusation.
"a tirade of abuse"

betrothed
/bɪˈtrəʊðd/
noun
the person to whom one is engaged.
"how long have you known your betrothed?"
Similar:

nitwit
/ˈnɪtwɪt/
nouninformal
a silly or foolish person (often as a general term of abuse).
"I want nothing to do with that bunch of nitwits!”

work someone's ass off
idiom mainly US offensive
a rude phrase meaning to make someone work very hard:
They work your ass off but they pay you well.

He is out of touch with reality. He lives in a fantasy world.

go a long way
idiom (also go far)
Add to word list 
If you say that someone will go a long way, you mean that they will be very successful.
go a long way
idiom (also go far)
Add to word list 
If you say that someone will go a long way, you mean that they will be very successful.


perdition
/pəˈdɪʃn/
noun
(in Christian theology) a state of eternal punishment and damnation into which a sinful and unrepentant person passes after death.

put up
display a notice, sign, or poster.
"she put up a sign advertising the guest house”

bootleg
/ˈbuːtlɛɡ/
adjective
(of alcoholic drink or a recording) made, distributed, or sold illegally.
"bootleg cassettes”

obfuscate
/ˈɒbfʌskeɪt/
verb
make obscure, unclear, or unintelligible.
"the spelling changes will deform some familiar words and obfuscate their etymological origins”

latch on to
idiom
variants or latch onto
1
: to grab and hold (something)
He latched onto her arm and wouldn't let go.
—often used figuratively
The news media has latched on to the scandal.
2
:
